
                               === VLCJ ===


== Introduction ==

VLCJ provides a Java binding, using JNA, to the VideoLAN native media player.

It was inspired by, and is in part derived from, the JVLC bindings which seem 
to be no longer available, or at least not actively maintained.

Along with the native bindings, a basic media player class is included in the
distribution as is an example video player application to launch it.

There are a very small number of relevant files in the distribution so it 
should be very easy to work out what is happening.

Make sure you understand how to setup your environment to use JNA. In 
particular you may need to set the "jna.library.path" environment variable to
point to the directory containing the "libvlc" native shared library file.

See also the "README.status" file.


== License ==

Make sure you read and understand the README.LICENSE file. VLCJ, JVLC and VLC
itself all use open source licenses. You must respect the terms of the GPL 3
license.

This software makes use of JNA. You must respect the terms under which JNA is
licensed.


== VLC Compatibility ==

Note that the current versions of these bindings require VLC 1.1.x, they will
NOT work with VLC 1.0.x.

If you have previously used VLCJ you may well need to make changes in your own 
code to make use of the new bindings - this is unavoidable because the new 
version of libvlc has changed a lot.

Versions of the bindings that do work with 1.0.x are available in the project
Downloads section.


== Distribution Contents ==

The main artefacts are:

  vlcj-<version>.jar           - jar file for compiling and running against
  vlcj-<version>-sources.jar   - all source code
  vlcj-<version>-javadoc.jar   - generated javadoc API documentation


== Usage ==

The main class is the MediaPlayer class.

I encourage you to read the javadoc for that class, or consult the TestPlayer
implementation (see below).


== The Example Video Player Application ==

In addition, there is a test video player application available:

  vlcj-<version>-test.jar      - (see below)

The test jar has a proper manifest class path and main class so it may be
executed directly to start the application.

The vlc-<version>-test.jar MUST be in the same directory as the
vlc-<version>.jar, the JNA platform.jar and jna.jar files and the log4j.jar.

The application may be started like this for example (assuming a "$" command-
line prompt):

$java -jar vlc-1.1.0-test.jar

For the test player you can specify a logo file name on the command-line.

$java -jar vlc-1.1.0-test.jar /some/directory/vlcj-logo.png

To specify a logging configuration:

$java -Dlog4j.configuration=file:log4j.xml -jar vlc-1.1.0-test.jar

== Known Issues ==

Development and testing of this software is almost exclusively under Linux. I
have no access whatsoever to Mac hardware, and I very rarely use Windows.

That being said, there is no reason why these bindings will not work on those
operating systems.

One thing that changed in libvlc 1.0 as compared to libvlc 1.1 is that there
are now multiple methods provided to set the video rendering surface - this is
operating-system dependant.

This means at run-time you need to detect which operating system you are 
running on and call the appropriate method.

At the moment the implementations provided out-of-the-box by VLCJ are for
Linux and Windows. There is no Mac version yet.

It should be simple to add the missing implementation for the other operating
systems but I can not do this myself due to lack of suitable testing 
environments.

The test video player attempts to work out the runtime operating system and
create the appropriate video player instance.


== Feedback and Contact Details ==

I'd be happy to hear about any interesting uses you may put this to!

See http://forum.videolan.org/viewtopic.php?f=32&t=56939

email: eduardosherington <at> hotmail.com
